DEBUGGING.md, before:

# Debugging mirrord

## mirrord console

Debugging mirrord can get hard since we're running from another app flow, so the fact we're debugging might affect the program and make it unusable/buggy (due to sharing stdout with scripts/other applications).

The recommended way to do it is to use `mirrord-console`. It is a small application that receives log information from different mirrord instances and prints it, controlled via `RUST_LOG` environment variable.

To use mirrord console, run it:
`cargo run --bin mirrord-console`

Then run mirrord with the environment variable:
`MIRRORD_CONSOLE_ADDR=127.0.0.1:11233`

## Retrieving Agent Logs

By default, the agent's pod will complete and disappear shortly after the agent exits. In order to be able to retrieve 
the agent's logs after it crashes, set the agent's pod's TTL to a comfortable number of seconds. This configuration can
be specified either as a command line argument (`--agent-ttl`), environment variable (`MIRRORD_AGENT_TTL`), or in a
configuration file:
```toml
[agent]
ttl = 30
```

Then, when running with some reasonable TTL, you can retrieve the agent log like this:
```bash
kubectl logs -l app=mirrord --tail=-1 | less -R
```

This will retrieve the logs from all running mirrord agents, so it is only useful when just one agent pod exists.

If there are currently multiple agent pods running on your cluster, you would have to run
```bash
kubectl get pods
```
and find the name of the agent pod you're interested in, then run

```bash
kubectl logs <YOUR_POD_NAME> | less -R
```

where you would replace `<YOUR_POD_NAME>` with the name of the pod.

## Debugging the vscode extension
In order to debug the vscode extension, first [build the mirrord binary](TESTING.md#build-and-run-mirrord). Then run:
```bash
cd vscode-ext
```
```bash
npm install
npm run compile
```
Now you can just open the extension's code in vscode and run, using the "Launch Extension" run configuration. Another vscode window will start. You can set breakpoints
in the extension's code in the first window, and use the extension in the second window to reach the breakpoints.
When in debug mode, the extension will automatically use the debug mirrord binary.

If you want to see the layer's logs, [use the console](#mirrord-console) by setting
```json
            "env": {
                "RUST_LOG": "warn,mirrord=trace",
                "MIRRORD_CONSOLE_ADDR": "127.0.0.1:11233"
            }

```
in the launch configuration of the second window.

## Debugging the JetBrains plugin

TODO

Commit message:

IntelliJ extension debugging guide (#1312)
* Debugging guide added

* Changelog entry added

* Unnecessary change reverted

DEBUGGING.md, after:

# Debugging mirrord

## mirrord console

Debugging mirrord can get hard since we're running from another app flow, so the fact we're debugging might affect the program and make it unusable/buggy (due to sharing stdout with scripts/other applications).

The recommended way to do it is to use `mirrord-console`. It is a small application that receives log information from different mirrord instances and prints it, controlled via `RUST_LOG` environment variable.

To use mirrord console, run it:
`cargo run --bin mirrord-console`

Then run mirrord with the environment variable:
`MIRRORD_CONSOLE_ADDR=127.0.0.1:11233`

## Retrieving Agent Logs

By default, the agent's pod will complete and disappear shortly after the agent exits. In order to be able to retrieve 
the agent's logs after it crashes, set the agent's pod's TTL to a comfortable number of seconds. This configuration can
be specified either as a command line argument (`--agent-ttl`), environment variable (`MIRRORD_AGENT_TTL`), or in a
configuration file:
```toml
[agent]
ttl = 30
```

Then, when running with some reasonable TTL, you can retrieve the agent log like this:
```bash
kubectl logs -l app=mirrord --tail=-1 | less -R
```

This will retrieve the logs from all running mirrord agents, so it is only useful when just one agent pod exists.

If there are currently multiple agent pods running on your cluster, you would have to run
```bash
kubectl get pods
```
and find the name of the agent pod you're interested in, then run

```bash
kubectl logs <YOUR_POD_NAME> | less -R
```

where you would replace `<YOUR_POD_NAME>` with the name of the pod.

## Debugging the vscode extension
In order to debug the vscode extension, first [build the mirrord binary](TESTING.md#build-and-run-mirrord). Then run:
```bash
cd vscode-ext
npm install
npm run compile
```
Now you can just open the extension's code in vscode and run, using the "Launch Extension" run configuration. Another vscode window will start. You can set breakpoints
in the extension's code in the first window, and use the extension in the second window to reach the breakpoints.
When in debug mode, the extension will automatically use the debug mirrord binary.

If you want to see the layer's logs, [use the console](#mirrord-console) by setting
```json
            "env": {
                "RUST_LOG": "warn,mirrord=trace",
                "MIRRORD_CONSOLE_ADDR": "127.0.0.1:11233"
            }

```
in the launch configuration of the second window.

## Debugging the JetBrains plugin

First, [build the mirrord binaries](TESTING.md#build-and-run-mirrord) if not yet built. Then:

```bash
cd intellij-ext
```

### On macOS

```bash
cp ../target/universal-apple-darwin/debug/libmirrord_layer.dylib .
touch libmirrord_layer.so
cp ../target/universal-apple-darwin/debug/mirrord bin/macos/
```

### On Linux x86-64

```bash
cp ../target/debug/libmirrord_layer.so .
touch libmirrord_layer.dylib
cp ../target/debug/mirrord bin/linux/x86-64/mirrord
```

Now open the extension's code in an IntelliJ IDEA. Create a new Gradle run configuration with a `runIde` task.
Running this configuration in debug will open a new IDE window.
You can set breakpoints in the extension's code in the first window, and use the extension in the second window to reach the breakpoints.

You can control which IDE is opened with a `PLATFORMTYPE` environment variable. For example, set `PLATFORMTYPE=IU` for IntelliJ IDEA Ultimate.
